---
layout: post
title: Coin Flip
published: false
image_url: /images/400-300px/coins-400-300.png
excerpt: A walkthrough of Coin Flip
---

## Coin Flip

Coin flip is harder because it introduces a lot of new concepts.
We need to use Remix for this, because we need to deploy our own contract.

```javascript
function flip(bool _guess) public returns (bool) {
 uint256 blockValue = 
 uint256(block.blockhash(block.number-1));
```
It's using the hash of the previous block.
`block.blockhash` only works for the last 256 blocks, and you can't use it on the current block. So people use it for the most recent because attackers will have less time to guess it. The average block time is around 15 seconds, so they don't have much time to move to take advantage of it.

[You can check the latest block number here](https://etherscan.io/blocks) - it's listed as block height.


So let's say the current `block.number` is 100. block.number - 1 is 99, so this code will get the hash of block 99. Every block has a hash that validates it in the blockchain. 
The hash code is 32 bytes long. Here it is in hex format:
  
0x4f7b7db222ebdacef6f8d2dbb1245fbe50f709a5ad81fdadf5d07d31ddbc7dc9

Miners generate these hash codes for a given set of transactions and get an ether reward for it. It's computationally difficulty, hence the reward.

Ok, so once it assigns a value to `blockValue`, it checks if it's equal to `lastHash`.

```javascript
if (lastHash == blockValue) { 
	revert(); 
}
```
You could also write this as:
```javascript
require(lastHash != blockValue);
```
`lastHash` hasn't been assigned a value yet.

Then it assigns `lastHash` the value of `blockValue`:
```javascript
lastHash = blockValue;
```
This is to make sure that this function is not running on the same block twice.

```javascript
uint256 coinFlip = uint256(uint256(blockValue) / FACTOR); 
```
I don't see how casting `blockValue` to **uint256** is necessary. `blockValue` is already a **uint256**. This code should work instead:

```javascript
uint256 coinFlip = uint256(blockValue / FACTOR); 
```
What is up with the FACTOR? How could it be divisible by either 1 or 0?
```javascript
bool side = coinFlip == 1 ? true : false;
```

I cheated with this level. I implemented a walk-through. I don't know where the walkthrough is now though.

There was definitely some stuff I did wrong with the remix editor. I can't remember what it is now though.


There's actually a lot to this that I didn't know.

So what's the solution?

The original Coinflip contract is defined so the EVM interpreter (??)



## Problems encountered

### invalid checksum error

You'll get an invalid checksum warning, which can be fixed with:

[solidity \- Remix Warning: This looks like an address but has an invalid checksum \- Ethereum Stack Exchange](https://ethereum.stackexchange.com/questions/30257/remix-warning-this-looks-like-an-address-but-has-an-invalid-checksum)



Remix gives this warning

> Warning: This looks like an address but has an invalid checksum. If this is not used as an address, please prepend '00'. 

Remix gives a corrected checksummed address.

A checksum is the result of a checksum function. In this case it is determining whether an address is valid or not.

I think it is because there was an update that changed valid ethereum addresses.
so why does ethernaut provide the wrong address? And how does etherscan fix it?

Anyway, it's easy to resolve. Remix provides the correct checksummed address. Alternatively you can paste it into etherscan.


The rule for a correct checksum is quite complex. The full details are here:
[EIPs/eip\-55\.md at master · ethereum/EIPs](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-55.md)

This EIP was introduced to drastically reduce the chance of a mistyped address.

Correct checksummed address: '0x4034473A2b30deC191BE7f94f83ADC29D6B77ad8'. For more information please see https://solidity.readthedocs.io/en/develop/types.html#address-literals
    CoinFlip public target = CoinFlip(0x4034473a2b30dec191be7f94f83adc29d6b77ad8);
browser/coinFlip2.sol:9:39: Warning: This looks like an address but has an invalid checksum. If this is not used as an address, please prepend '00'. Correct checksummed address: '0xD340de695BbC39E72DF800DFde78a20d2ed94035'. For more information please see https://solidity.readthedocs.io/en/develop/types.html#address-literals CoinFlip public target = CoinFlip(0xd340de695bbc39e72df800dfde78a20d2ed94035); ^----------------------------------------^


### Error: gas required exceeds allowance or always failing transaction


It either exceeds that maximum gas or there is an error in the code causing it to always fail.
I suspect that in this case, there is an error in the code causing it to fail.

contract deployment is hard.

I guess this is an opportunity for me to use the debugger.

Debugging isn't that useful though. I can't see what the values are for the local variables in the cheat function.
What is solidity state?
There's a lot of HEX to read in Remix.

There is Solidity locals but there's nothing there. 
It looks like it only uses 3 gas before

I get this error:
> note the constructor should be payable if you send a value


I've already completed this level. I might come back to it.